AB testing 
-It helps evaluating changes or improvements in products or services
- It allows one to make data driven decisions by comparing two different versions of a product or service in a process called treatment/control

A/B Test Basics
A/B testing or split testing originated from the statistical randomised control trials
-Is one of the most popular ways for Business to test:
    new UX features
    new versions of a product
    new versions of an algorithm

A/B testing processes
    1. Hypothesis Of A/B test
    2. A/B Test design | Power Analysis 
    3. Run the A/B Test
    4. Result Analysis | Statistical Significance
    5. Result Analysis | Pratical Significance 

Hypothesis | Primary metric
    Business Hypothesis describes what two products are being
compared and what is the desired impact or difference for the business.
    It highlights the following:
    -how to fix a potential issue in the product
    -a solution that will influence the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)

Primary Metric 
    A way to measure the performance of the product being tested 
in the A/B test for the experimental and control groups. It will be used to identify whether there is a statistical significant difference between the two groups. 
    It should be one primary metric 
    answering metric Validity Question


Choosing Primary Metric 
Metric Validity Question: If this chosen metric were to increase significantly while everything stays constant, would you achieve your goal and address the problem?
    higher revenue
    higher engagement?
    more views?

Revenue Primary Metric
 Coversion rate - Used to measure the effeciveness of a website
product or marketing compaign
-It calculate the percentage of the number of people visiting the website, making an online purchase, filling out the e-forms

Formular = (Number of conversions/Number of visitors) x 100% 

-helps to measure effectivess of a website, product or marketing compaign.
-Helps to identify areas that need improvement hence improving user experience.   
  
Engagement Primary Metric
    Click Through Rate(CTR) - Used to measure the effectiveness of a digital marketing compaign or digital User management, a feature or product on the website
(especially in cases of ecommerce)

CTR = (Number of clicks / Number of impressions) x 100%

Statistical Hypothesis 
-Statistical procedure that is used to determine whether there is a significant difference between the observed and expected data.
     Used to test results of an experiment 
     Used to establishh the ststistical significance  

We can put the hypothesis subject to reject under Null Hyptheseis(H0)
We can also put the hypothesis subject to acceptance under Alternative Hypothesis(H1)



A/B TEST DESIGN
-It involves 3 stages namely:
    Power Analysis 
    Mininum Sample Size
    Test Duration

Power Analysis -
-this involves the following:
    Making assumptions aboout modal parameters that include:
        power of the test
        significance level

Then we can use the parameters in the power test to calculate mininum sample size for the control and experimental groups - Stage2

Stage3 - decidiing the test duration basing on a variety of factors

More Details
Power Analysis
1. Determine Power of the test
    Power is the probability of correctly rejecting the Null
hypothesis  
    probability of not making a type II error.(1-B)
    where B:type II error
    common to pick 80% as power of the A/B test
    null is false

2. Determine Significance level of the test
    probability of rejecting the null, while null is true
    detecting statistical significance while it is not
    probability of making a type I error(a)
    common to pick 5% as significance level of the test

3. Determine the Minimum Detectable Effect of the test
    What is the substantive to the ststistical significance for the business?
    Proxy that relates tothe smallest effect that would matter in practice 
    No common level - the common level depends on the business ask
    -Normally set by stakeholders

Formulars 
B: probability of type II error
(1-B):Power of the test
a: Probability of Type I error, Significance level
d: Mininum Detectable Effect(MDE)

Calculating Min Sample Size
- It is done before running the test to prevent p-hacking 
- It depends on the primary metric to track both groups experimental and control 
The primary metric can be in different forms:
    in the from of a binary variable
    in the form of proportions or avaerages
     